# Dissertation

**Truth In Data Science**

**Summary**: One of Earth's primary ocean circulation systems, the Atlantic Meridional Overturning Circulation (AMOC), redistributes heat around the globe and has a significant influence on climate. We use several publicly available proxy records to recreate the history of the AMOC since around AD 400. After a lengthy and generally steady period, the AMOC began to deteriorate in the nineteenth century, followed by a second, more rapid decline in the mid-twentieth century, culminating in the AMOC's weakest condition in recent decades. Climate change poses a threat to the AMOC. As the atmosphere warms owing to rising greenhouse gas levels, the ocean's capacity to dissipate heat from the North Atlantic surface decreases, weakening one of the AMOC's driving mechanisms. The AMOC is continually deteriorating in climate model estimates for this century's global warming. The decrease of the northward heat source will have a cooling effect on the climate in the North Atlantic region. This effect is taken into consideration in climate models, but because the direct warming effect of rising greenhouse gas concentrations is stronger, the net result is still warming over land. However, this project utilized past research works of Caesar et al. (2018), Cheng et al. (2017), Osmann et al. (2019), Rahmstorf et al. (2015), Spooner et al. (2020) and Thornalley et al. (2018), Tsub and discovered the pattern of the AMOC. Our goal is to find the most accurate research work using P-hacking, Bayes Factor and Jags Model Implementation.

**Scenario**: A century of subarctic Atlantic marine productivity data suggests a 10% decline in net primary output. Methane-sulfonic acid aerosol is measured in Greenland ice cores. We show how historical satellite data can track changes in spatially integrated marine output. In the subarctic  Atlantic, productivity decreases are connected to regional sea surface temperatures and basinwide gyre circulation strength. Less Atlantic Meridional Overturning Circulation may have contributed to lower northern Atlantic productivity. That may change in the twenty-first century. The subarctic Atlantic basin’s net primary productivity has dropped for two centuries. The Atlantic Meridional Overturning Circulation (AMOC) is responsible for a climatically significant and variable northward heat movement. We show that the AMOC has been in a condition of reduced overturning since 2008, compared to 2004–2008, using data from a variety of sensors spanning the Atlantic at 26°N. This change in AMOC state occurs at the same time as other changes in the North Atlantic, such as the Gulf Stream's northward shift and widening, as well as changing heat content and sea surface temperature trends. These changes are like those projected by coupled climate models in response to a diminishing AMOC. Changes in ocean heat transport and sea surface temperature have influenced the pattern of ocean-atmosphere heat exchange over the North Atlantic, according to concomitant changes in air-sea fluxes along the western boundary. These findings show that the AMOC is a significant contributor to decadal-scale climatic variability in the North Atlantic. In this project, our task is to verify the dataset provided by research scholars and detect the most accurate dataset.

**Conclusion**: Decadal-scale reductions in the AMOC are manifested by a weakening of the northward WBC (e.g., Thomas et al., 2012) and a reduction in the heat transported by the North Atlantic Current into the eastern subpolar gyre (Zhang, 2008), according to a number of studies using coupled climate models and forced ocean models. These are extremely comparable to the changes we've discovered as occurring in tandem with the reported decrease in AMOC. In model simulations, the fingerprint of a changing AMOC is commonly established by regressing the different variables against the AMOC. This method was previously used on data, revealing connections between SST and the AMOC at 26°N, which were linked to seasonal to interannual variability (Duchez et al., 2015). However, the observational record for the AMOC's multiyear drop is insufficient to use the same methodology, and an alternative approach is required.Our findings demonstrate that the AMOC's previously reported decrease (Smeed et al., 2014) has been halted, although the AMOC's observational record is still short in comparison to the time scales of major decadal fluctuations in the Atlantic. As a result, knowledge is always changing. What this research reveals as a shifting AMOC state might simply be a decadal oscillation overlaid atop a multidecadal cycle. On top of these oscillations is the impact of human change, which is anticipated to reduce the AMOC during the next century. We will be able to untangle and disclose the role of ocean circulation in the changing Atlantic climate in the future decades if measurements from the RAPID 26°N array and comparable observations elsewhere in the Atlantic (Lozier et al., 2017; Meinen et al., 2013) are continued.However, we examined the AMOC climate change subject in this project and evaluated the report using machine learning algorithms in Python. Our objective was to find out the correctly predicted analysis. So, we created Machine Learning software in Anaconda and analyzed the data from it and we have some outputs with the help of these data. After having the data and the current result we managed to predict the next 50 years' data from it by using machine learning. According to our analysis, Caesar et al. (2018) has the most accurate result.
